
# Why learn R?

## R is not a GUI, and it is a good thing

The learning curve might be steeper than with other software, but with R, you
can save all the steps you used to go from the data to the results. So, if you
want to redo your analysis because you collected more data, you don't have to
remember which button you clicked in which order to obtain your results, you
just have to run your script again.

Working with scripts makes the steps you used in your analysis clear, and the
code you write can be inspected by someone else that can give you feedback and
spot mistakes.

Working with scripts forces you to have deeper understanding of what you are
doing, and facilitates your learning and comprehension of the methods you use.


## R code is great for reproducibility

Reproducibility is that someone else (including your future self) can obtain the
same results from the same dataset when using the same analysis.

R integrates with other tools to generate manuscripts from your code. If you
collect more data, or fix a mistake in your dataset, the figures and the
statistical tests in your manuscript are updated automatically.

An increasing number of journals and granting agencies requires analyses to be
reproducible, knowing R will give you an edge with these requirements.


## R is interdisciplinary and extensible

With 6,000+ packages that can be installed to extend its capabilities, R
provides a framework that allows you to combine analyses across many scientific
disciplines to best suit the analyses you want to use on your data. For
instance, R has packages for image analysis, GIS, time series, population
genetics, and lot more.


## R works on data of all shapes and size

The skills you learn with R scale easily with the size of your dataset. Whether
your dataset has hundreds or millions of lines, it won't make much difference to
you.

R is designed for data analysis. It comes with special data structure and data
types that makes the handling of missing data and statistical factors
convenient.

R can connect to spreadsheets, databases, and many other data formats, on your
computer or on the web.


## R produces high-quality graphics

The plotting functionalities in R are endless, and allow you to adjust any
aspect of your graph to convey most effectively the message from your data.


## R has a large community

Thousands of people use R daily. Many of them are willing to help you through
mailing lists and stack overflow.


## Not only R is free, but it is also open-source and cross-platform

There is no black magic involved, anyone can inspect the source code to see how
R works. Because of this transparency, there is less chance for mistakes, and if
you (or someone else) find some, you can report and fix bugs.
